FreeBSD Jail call 20230308 notes (#10)
freebsd/meetings: jail/20230308.md

# FreeBSD Jail Call | 20230308

These calls take place each Wednesday at 10AM Pacific barring conflicts with community events and holidays. The focus alternates between Developers and Production Users each week The [Zoom meeting linkis](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/85638209502?pwd=WEtHK0llaWZmTWtmTnhPUlVqRmlGUT09) available and you are welcome to contact Antranig V. (antranigv@freebsd dot am) and Michael Dexter (editor@callfortesting dot org) with questions, concerns, and to be added or removed from the invitation mailing list. This regular call began on 2023-03-08.

**2023-03-08 Production Users**
Attendees: Phillip V, Michael D, Alan S, Antranig V, Dave C, Igor A, Phillip V, Goran M, Dan L, Dominik J.

Welcome!

## Introductions

> **Alan Somers**: Developer, been using `iocage` and `ezjail` before that. Disappointed that `iocage` is under-maintained. Concerned that Bastille and pot are making: Written in sh, making it hard to debug, resulting in zero test suite.

Reviewer: @asomers Just a remark: Even though pot is currently written in sh (we are planning to change that in the future), it has a basic test suite consisting of:

1. shellcheck for syntax checking
2. unit tests using shunit
3. A CI test suite

All these are integrated with the github repo (e.g., https://github.com/bsdpot/pot/blob/master/.github/workflows/ci.yml).

Did you try to reach out to the project (or maybe @pizzamig personally) to discuss?

Reviewer 2: Sorry; the notes came out a little too harsh.  I mean that both Bastille and pot are written in sh, making it hard to debug and scale, and that *bastille* had zero test suite.  I saw that Pot had one, though I haven't dug into the details.  What language are you planning to rewrite into?

Reviewer 3: Just to be clear, this is not a *factually correct* document, but rather notes of our call.

We are, however, open to modify the doc, i.e. errata notes from the community 😄

Reviewer: @antranigv I understand - this I wasn't on the call/not aware it happened, this seemed like the best place to comment ;) (as it would reach all those who participated)

@asomers We were considering rust, since I had some positive experience with it over the last few years (including writing pot support for sccache) and @pizzamig likes it too. Also, sysutils/potnet is already written in rust anyway, so we won't add more dependencies. It's not decided yet though.

Reviewer 2: Oh, that would be awesome!  I'm a big fan of Rust.  Let me know if you want any help.

Reviewer: @asomers I'll keep you posted, as soon as there is basic progress

Reviewer 4: Hi everyone. I'm late, but I hope not too late.
Ideally, we would like to have some sort of `jaild` daemon, to have a better control of the various states of a jail.
I'm not 100% sold to Rust, because we would need to have libjail as a crate. The problem is that triplets in rust don't contain FreeBSD release information (I've broken the libc create already once 😂 )
So C is also on the table, as `jaild` could even be part of FreeBSD eventually.
I've just requested to join next meetings so, we can speak about it

> **Alan Somers**: Developer, been using `iocage` and `ezjail` before that. Disappointed that `iocage` is under-maintained. Concerned that Bastille and pot are making: Written in sh, making it hard to debug, resulting in zero test suite.

Reviewer 2: Here's a more accurate summary of my statements
```suggestion
**Alan Somers**: Developer, been using `iocage` and `ezjail` before that. Disappointed that `iocage` is un-maintained. Concerned that Bastille and pot are making the same mistakes: Written in sh, making it hard to debug, hard to scale, and in Bastille's case resulting in zero test suite.
```

Note the Open Container Initiative and [OCI for FreeBSD](https://medium.com/@dfr/oci-containers-for-freebsd-512a6df2bc85)

Notes on dfr'spodman port

Goran's [current patch](https://github.com/mekanix/freebsd-src/tree/feature/jail) Patches the jail utility which is aware of all applicable configuration paths.  
Note "wildcard" jails - global config and other jails can override one or more above it.  
`/etc/jail.conf` could be at the end... Start with `jail.conf.d`? Thoughts on the order of the  
parser?

**Dan**: Sounds like /etc/defaults jail.conf is really jail.conf.defaults that you manually  
override. "This is a setting you cannot override" might be desired.  
**Note**: ` * { exec.start = ""; exec.stop = ""; }`

**Note:** `/etc/jail.<name>.conf`  
**Note:** `jail -r -f /path/to/jail.conf '*'`

**Dave**: The kernel, not configuration files should manage the true state of Jails. Need a description syntax that is handed to the kernel. Note [UCL/libucl](https://github.com/vstakhov/libucl). Not sure if libucl supports variables but perhaps it can be added. Is there any UCL support in Jail yet?

Note that `jls` supports `--libxo=json` etc.

> If you have an integer for a Jail name, it will use that as the jail ID. Feature or bug? What happens when they collide?

Reviewer 5: This is very intentional, and there's no such thing as a collision -- the jid can't be auto-assigned to a jail if it's been taken by a jid-named-jail.

**Dave**: Every jail is based on a commit hash... check the hash.

Note the possibility of [integer mix-ups here](https://github.com/mekanix/freebsd-src/blob/feature/jail/usr.sbin/jail/config.c#L204-L206). This will give Jail ID "something" "3":

```
* { $id = 1; }
something { $id = 2; }
* { $id = 3; }
```

Anything global needs to be last, not first. Feature? Bug?

> Note `/usr/sbin/ctlduse` a local configuration file for a UCL example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note `/usr/sbin/ctld` uses a local configuration file for a UCL example.
```

Note `cron.d` that is often used by packages in `/usr/local/etc`... Note `syslog.d` linked from `syslog.conf`, and the "new syslog" syntax. The syntax changed in 13!

**Question** : How to stagger Jail operations in cron? Dan: Use jitter?

**Poll** : Who is using DHCP with Jails? Dan is, Goran runs it in Jails with IPv4/IPv6. Run rtdvd/rtsol on the router... (advertisements/solicitation) Expiration(s) in 10 minutes. Can result in two default routes. The rtsol route does not disappear.

**Question:** Should FreeBSD Jails be OCI-compliant and follow their standard? Too many implementations become standards. To what degree is runj following the standard? Note Bryan Cantrill's [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AdMqCUhvRz8) on debugging Docker in Production. Consider a Linux-compatibility shim? The Go-based control plane is quite decoupled. Nomad scales much better - produced a 2000 node cluster. [Mesos](https://mesos.apache.org/) scales much better than Kubernetes or Nomad
[Link](https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/)

**Note:** Brendan Gregg's comments on tracing Zones and Jails compared to Linux containers.

> **Quote:** PHK: "I used a script to create lots of jails and got bored at 64k"

Reviewer 6: I don't know where that quote is from nor why was it pasted. Given the context it is supposed to justify a claim there is no jail-management performance problem?

According to git log jails showed up in 1999 and they were incredibly primitive in the beginning.

```
        MALLOC(pr, struct prison *, sizeof *pr , M_PRISON, M_WAITOK);
        bzero((caddr_t)pr, sizeof *pr);
        error = copyinstr(j.hostname, &pr->pr_host, sizeof pr->pr_host, 0);
        if (error) 
                goto bail;
        pr->pr_ip = j.ip_number;

        ca.path = j.path;
        error = chroot(p, &ca);
        if (error)
                goto bail;

        pr->pr_ref++;
        p->p_prison = pr;
        p->p_flag |= P_JAILED;
```

et voila, new jail in place.

One thing you may notice there is no ID associated with it and it did not land in any data structure allowing to find it later.

There is 0 surprise something like this managed to get 64k instances and not be affected.

In contrast, after jail_attach was implemented in 2003, IDs also showed up and a global *linked list* was added. There is *linear scans* needed to jail_attach, does not look good for 64k jails, does it.

Moreover, the current tolling calls jexec several times to de facto spawn a jail, making the situation worse.

Bare minimum the linear scan needs to be whacked, the easiest way out which may also happen to be tolerable is a RB tree over it. Even then note finding a jail is a globally serializing operation when it does not have to be. I did mention this to jamie@.

That aside I have to note both nested and unprivileged jails are nasty cans of worms.
